Books on Python: Python in a Nutshell Books on Python This website is created by: Python Training Courses in Toronto, Canada On site trainings in Europe, Canada and the US. "The man who doesn't read good books has no advantage over the man who can't read them." (Mark Twain) "There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written or badly written." (Oscar Wilde) "I think it is good that books still exist, but they do make me sleepy." (Frank Zappa) This website is free of annoying ads. We want to keep it like this. You can help with your donation: The need for donations Bernd Klein on Facebook Search this website: Classroom Training Courses This website contains a free and extensive online tutorial by Bernd Klein, using material from his classroom Python training courses. If you are interested in an instructor-led classroom training course, you may have a look at the Python classes by Bernd Klein at Bodenseo. © kabliczech - Fotolia.com Quote of the Day:A computer would deserve to be called intelligent if it could deceive a human into believing that it was human. Alan Turing If you have the choice working with Python 2 or Python 3, we recomend to switch to Python 3! You can read our Python Tutorial to see what the differences are. Data Protection Declaration Data Protection Declaration Python in a Nutshell The Blurb This book offers Python programmers one place to look when they need help remembering or deciphering the syntax of this open source language and its many powerful but scantily documented modules. This comprehensive reference guide makes it easy to look up the most frequently needed information -- not just about the Python language itself, but also the most frequently used parts of the standard library and the most important third-party extensions. Ask any Python aficionado and you'll hear that Python programmers have it all: an elegant object-oriented language with readable and maintainable syntax that allows for easy integration with components in C, C++, Java, or C#, and an enormous collection of precoded standard library and third-party extension modules. Moreover, Python is easy to learn, yet powerful enough to take on the most ambitious programming challenges. But what Python programmers used to lack is a concise and clear reference resource, with the appropriate measure of guidance in how best to use Python's great power. Python in a Nutshell fills this need. Python in a Nutshell, Second Edition covers more than the language itself; it also deals with the most frequently used parts of the standard library, and the most popular and important third party extensions. Revised and expanded for Python 2.5, this book now contains the gory details of Python's new subprocess module and breaking news about Microsoft's new IronPython project. Our "Nutshell" format fits Python perfectly by presenting the highlights of the most important modules and functions in its standard library, which cover over 90% of your practical programming needs. This book includes: A fast-paced tutorial on the syntax of the Python language An explanation of object-oriented programming in Python Coverage of iterators, generators, exceptions, modules,packages, strings, and regular expressions A quick reference for Python's built-in types and functionsand key modules Reference material on important third-party extensions,such as Numeric and Tkinter Information about extending and embedding Python Python in a Nutshell provides a solid, no-nonsense quick reference to information that programmers rely on the most. This book will immediately earn its place in any Python programmer's library. Details Title: Python in a Nutshell, 2nd Edition By: Alex Martelli Publisher: O'Reilly Media Formats: Print, Ebook, Safari Books Online Print: July 2006 Ebook: June 2009 Pages: 736 Print ISBN: 978-0-596-10046-9 ISBN 10: 0-596-10046-9 Ebook ISBN: 978-0-596-10566-2 ISBN 10: 0-596-10566-5 Our Review About the Author Alex Martelli spent 8 years with IBM Research, winning three Outstanding Technical Achievement Awards. He then spent 13 as a Senior Software Consultant at think3 inc, developing libraries, network protocols, GUI engines, event frameworks, and web access frontends. He has also taught programming languages, development methods, and numerical computing at Ferrara University and other venues. He's a C++ MVP for Brainbench, and a member of the Python Software Foundation. He currently works for AB Strakt, a Python-centered software house in G teborg, Sweden, mostly by telecommuting from his home in Bologna, Italy. Alex's proudest achievement is the articles that appeared in Bridge World (January/February 2000), which were hailed as giant steps towards solving issues that had haunted contract bridge theoreticians for decades. © 2011 - 2018, Bernd Klein, Bodenseo; Design by Denise Mitchinson adapted for python-course.eu by Bernd Klein