Books on Python: Rapid GUI Programming with Python and Qt Books on Python Python In Greek mythology, Python is the name of a a huge serpent and sometimes a dragon. Python had been killed by the god Apollo at Delphi. Python was created out of the slime and mud left after the great flood. He was appointed by Gaia (Mother Earth) to guard the oracle of Delphi, known as Pytho. The programming language Python has not been created out of slime and mud but out of the programming language ABC. It has been devised by a Dutch programmer, named Guido van Rossum, in Amsterdam. Origins of Python Guido van Rossum wrote the following about the origins of Python in a foreword for the book "Programming Python" by Mark Lutz in 1996: "Over six years ago, in December 1989, I was looking for a "hobby" programming project that would keep me occupied during the week around Christmas. My office (a government-run research lab in Amsterdam) would be closed, but I had a home computer, and not much else on my hands. I decided to write an interpreter for the new scripting language I had been thinking about lately: a descendant of ABC that would appeal to Unix/C hackers. I chose Python as a working title for the project, being in a slightly irreverent mood (and a big fan of Monty Python's Flying Circus)." This website is free of annoying ads. We want to keep it like this. You can help with your donation: The need for donations Bernd Klein on Facebook Search this website: Classroom Training Courses This website contains a free and extensive online tutorial by Bernd Klein, using material from his classroom Python training courses. If you are interested in an instructor-led classroom training course, you may have a look at the Python classes by Bernd Klein at Bodenseo. © kabliczech - Fotolia.com Quote of the Day:"If you use the original World Wide Web program, you never see a URL or have to deal with HTML. That was a surprise to me that people were prepared to painstakingly write HTML." (Tim Berners Lee) If you have the choice working with Python 2 or Python 3, we recomend to switch to Python 3! You can read our Python Tutorial to see what the differences are. Data Protection Declaration Data Protection Declaration Rapid GUI Programming with Python and Qt From the Website of the Author This book teaches programmers how to write programs using PyQt 4, the Python bindings for the Qt 4 application development framework. PyQt 4 is probably the fastest and easiest route into GUI programming and works on Windows, Mac OS X, and most operating systems that use the X Window System, such as Linux and many Unices. Note that the book is also useful for PySide programmers. The book will be useful to people who program professionally as part of their job, whether as full-time software developers, or those from other disciplines, including scientists and engineers, who need to do some programming in support of their work. It is also suitable for students-the only prerequisite is basic knowledge of an object oriented programming language, for example, Java or C++, or of course Python itself. The book is ~550 pages (648 including the appendices and index), has a foreword by Phil Thompson creator of PyQt, and is published by Prentice Hall. Details Title: Rapid GUI Programming with Python and Qt Author: Mark Summerfield ISBN-10: 0132354187 ISBN-13: 978-0132354189 648 Pages About the Author Mark is an independent programmer, author, editor, and trainer, specializing in C++, Qt, Python, and PyQt. Mark is a qualified teacher and graduated with first class honours in Computer Science from the University of Wales Swansea, UK. Prior to starting Qtrac Ltd., he spent many years in the software industry, primarily as a programmer. © 2011 - 2018, Bernd Klein, Bodenseo; Design by Denise Mitchinson adapted for python-course.eu by Bernd Klein