Books on Python: Literature Books on Python "The man who doesn't read good books has no advantage over the man who can't read them." (Mark Twain) This website is created by: Python Training Courses in Toronto, Canada On site trainings in Europe, Canada and the US. "There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written or badly written." (Oscar Wilde) "I think it is good that books still exist, but they do make me sleepy." (Frank Zappa) This website is free of annoying ads. We want to keep it like this. You can help with your donation: The need for donations Bernd Klein on Facebook Search this website: This topic in German / Deutsche Übersetzung: Bücher und LiteraturClassroom Training Courses This website contains a free and extensive online tutorial by Bernd Klein, using material from his classroom Python training courses. If you are interested in an instructor-led classroom training course, you may have a look at the Python classes by Bernd Klein at Bodenseo. © kabliczech - Fotolia.com Quote of the Day:"Space is big. You just won't believe how vastly, hugely, mind-bogglingly big it is. I mean, you may think it's a long way down the road to the chemist's, but that's just peanuts to space." (Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy) If you have the choice working with Python 2 or Python 3, we recomend to switch to Python 3! You can read our Python Tutorial to see what the differences are. Data Protection Declaration Data Protection Declaration Python Books Which is the right book? We are often asked "What is the best Python book?" This is a question which can't be answered with a single book, as the askers hoped for. There are more specific questions as well, such as What is the best Python book to learn with? I am complete newbie concerning programming. I want to start with Python. What is the best book you can recommend? I am already an experienced C and C++ programmer. What is the right book for me? What is the best book to learn Python from a Perl background? What is the best book to learn data structures and algorithms using Python? What is the best Python book on language processing? Questions like these are easier to answer, though generally neither in a unique way. Mark Lutz: Learning Python Mark Lutz: Programming Python Dive into Python Natural Language Processing with Python Rapid GUI Programming with Python and Qt Python in a Nutshell © 2011 - 2018, Bernd Klein, Bodenseo; Design by Denise Mitchinson adapted for python-course.eu by Bernd Klein